How to push your windows local machine files to github repository using the 'git bash'?

1. Go to desktop 

2. right click anywhere on the desktop and select the option 'git bash here'

3. pwd ( command to check the current directory. Your selected current directory is 'Desktop')

4. cd data_science_projects (create working directory 'data_science_projects' within 'Desktop')

5. git config --global user.name 'Anuj Srivastava' (globally defining user name. in this case it is 'Anuj Srivastava')

6. git config --global user.email anujsrivastava.analyst@gmail.com (globally defining the user email. in this case it is 'anujsrivastava.analyst@gmail.com'. recommended
   to use your github email)

7. git config --global core.autocrlf true (convert 'crlf' (windows) file format to 'lf' (mac) format) when the code is moved to cloud repository and also
   converconvert the 'lf' format to 'crlf' format while the code is move to the local window machine)

8. git init (creates .git file in the working directory)

9. git remote add origin https://github.com/anujsrivastavaanalyst/Data_Science.git (select the github cloud repository where you want to push the file. In this case 
   the the github repository is 'Data_Science' and 'anujsrivastavaanalyst' is the github user name)

10. git remote -v (used to check which repository of github is linked to working directory. In this case the working directory is 'data_science_projects' which we have
   created in step number 4 and the github repository is 'Data_Science')

11. git status (command to check the current status of file pushing process)

12. touch f1.py (used to create file with filename f1)

13. echo 'Hello Everyone! We are going to develop some simple machine learning model in this module' > f2.py (used to write one line as well as to create
    file with filename f2. syntax is echo 'write line')

14. cat f2.py (used to see the content of file f2) 

15. echo 'We will be working on a complete end to end project in this learning' >> f2.py (>> is used to add one more line after the previous line)

16. vim f3.py (vim is called vim editor. creates file with filename f3 and opens the editor. used to write multiple line of codes in the file)

17. press 'i' to enter the insert mode in the vim editor to write the code

18. write some line of codes in file f3

19. press esc to exit the insert mode after writing the code

20. write :wq to exit the vim editor

21. git add f1.py ( moves the file f1 to the staging area from the working directory)

22. git add f1.py f2.py (moves 2 files f1, and f2 to the staging area)

23. git add *.py (moves all the .py files to the staging area)

24. git add . (moves all the files to the staging area)

25. git commit -m 'commit #1' ( sends all the files to the local repository and creates the history of commit with meta data. m-stands for message. 'commit #1' is the
    message to create a time series of commit history)

26. git log ( shows the commit log/history with author name, date and time of commit)

27. git push -f origin main (moves all the files to the github repository)


How to delete files from the cloud repository (github)?

1. rm f1.py (type rm f1.py command in git and it will delete the file f1)

2. git add . (moves all the files to the staging area)

3. git commit -m 'commit #2' (this is the second commit. all of the files will be moved to the local repository)

4. git push -f origin main (push the updated files to the cloud repository)

5. A github dialog box will be open and enter your github credentials

6. check your github repository. There will not be any file with name f1.py


How to run python file from the git bash?

python f3.py



